List of Frequently Asked Questions about Psycle
-----------------------------------------------

- General Questions -
-------------------
Q)	I need to talk to the developers!

A)	Via E-mail:
	* Write to the mailing list: psycle-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
	* You can also contact with the developers adding a ticket to sourceforge
	site https://sourceforge.net/p/psycle/bugs/

	Via social networks:
	* Psycledelics forums: http://psycle.pastnotecut.org
	* Google+ site: https://plus.google.com/u/0/103492491563788867312
	* Twitter account: https://twitter.com/psycledelics
	
	User communities:
	* Facebook community site: https://www.facebook.com/groups/121474730283/
	* Google+ community site: https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/106016339032092323576
	* Soundcloud community site: https://soundcloud.com/groups/psyclers
	
	The IRC channel #psycle in EFnet still exists, but it is not actively used by
	developers right now.


Q)	Is it possible to import/load MOD/S3M/XM/IT files into Psycle?

A)	The ability to import has existed since version 1.8, but with an incomplete Sampulse machine.
	Since version 1.11.1 beta, the Sampulse machine is considered ready and can be used
	without fear for making songs.

	* Note that Psycle has a limitation : It does not have a volume column. To compensate
	for this, the mcm command in conjunction with the 1Exx command can be used to have both
	an effect command and a volume command.
	Also note that songs that use speed 5 will not play at the correct speed.
	(Use the FEE1 command at the start of the first pattern)

Q)	What is this 'dummy' machine?

A)	Dummy internal machine? It is mainly used to replace missing plugin machines when loading
	a .psy file. It can also be used to group machines, connecting them to it, and avoid a
	limitation that exists of max 12 machines connected to one.

Q)	I have problems playing a song in Winamp!

A)	The last update of the plugin was for version 1.10.2. Also, remember that the plugin uses 
    its own plugin cache, which you'll have to regenerate from the UI.
	

- Samples and the Sampler Machine -
--------------------------------
Q)	I've loaded a sample but it doesn't make any sound.

A)	To play a sampled sound (.wav or .iff only!) you need to add a sampler machine and connect
	it to the master or to an effect that goes to the master. You might want to check if other
	machines make sound, and check your audio settings.
 
Q)	Can Psycle use OGG?/MP3? files as samples?

A)	Unfortunately not. This is a common question, because it would be good. Support for lossy
	compression (MP3?, etc) and lossless compression? (FLAC, etc) formats is on the TODO list.

Q)	When I load a sample and enter a note, it's really fast and high-pitched...
	...when it plays. I've tried everything from halving the bit rate of the sample to re-installing Psycle.
	What should I do about this?

A)	The way trackers change pitch of a sample is by speeding up or slowing down the rate at which
	the individual sample points are played back. The result is similar to playing a 33 1/3 RPM
	record at 45, or vice versa. This depends on the note you press, the sample rate specified in the 
	sampler (see the instruments editor window) and one setting in the Sampler machine changes between
	C-4 or C-5 for the default speed note. Also, you can adjust the base
	note to another value, via the Edit instruments screen (Edit button in the toolbar, or F10 key) 


- Psycle Usage -
--------------
Q)	I've put my xxx VST plugin in the "plugins" dir and Psycle doesn't show it!

A)	Psycle uses a different paths for Native plugins and VST plugins. By default, Native Plugins go
	under "Plugins\" and VST's go under "Vst\". If you want to change it, go to Configure-Settings,
	select the "Directories" tab, and select your VST plugins' dir.
	Also, see next point:

	
Q)	What is the difference between the 32bits and 64bits builds, and what implications
	does it have when using VST plugins?

A)	The 64bits version of Psycle is made for users of the 64bits of Windows. Both the 32 and 64bits
	can be used in these OSs, but there is a restriction: The 64bits version can only load 64bit
	versions of VST plugins	and the 32bits can only load 32bit versions of them.
	If you use a VST bit bridging, like jBridge ( http://jstuff.wordpress.com/jbridge/ ),
	then that software can allow to use 32bits on 64bit version and 64bit on 32bit version.
	Remember to activate the support in Psycle Directories settings.


Q)	Why doesn't/Can't/won't Psycle support buzz machines?

A)	Oskari Tammelin, the author of Buzz, declined us the right to develop a Buzz Plugins' Host for Psycle.
	Recently, some wrappers are being developed for other projects. Psycle is keeping an eye on those
	and in the future we could use one of those in Psycle

Q)	I can't enter notes into the Pattern Editor. What happens?

A)	The Edit Mode is Deactivated. The default key to switch it on/off is the "Space" key. You can see if
	you are on Edit mode in the status bar, to the right.

Q)	What is the Red Circle Button in the toolbar for?

A)	It allows you to enter Record Notes in realtime mode. To enter this mode Follow Song and Edit mode
	have to be activated so when you enable Record Notes in realtime, Follow Song and Edit mode are
	activated automatically if they were disabled.

Q)	I have only 16 tracks in my psycle song, how do i get 64?

A)	Under the save icon (the diskette), there is a track number selector. Unfold the list of tracks number
	and select 64.

Q)	What does the Autostop All Machines button exactly do?

A)	When enabled, if Psycle detects an effect that receives no sound input, it stops it, freeing CPU usage.
	This is beneficial in most cases, but plugins like delays, or those that have LFO's or any other parameter
	that needs to run constantly, will sound unexpectedly.

Q)	How do I change the pattern length?

A)	Right Click in the Pattern Window and then select "Properties"

Q)	Is it possible to have different patterns with a different length?

A)	See above: "How do I change the pattern length?"

Q)	How does the tweak_smooth command work?

A)	In the docs-Directory you find a .txt-file with in-depth info about tweaking.

Q)	Is it possible to let a tws command affect several rows (not only one)?

A)	Smooth tweaks between two tweak values can be achieved by entering the start and the end value,
	selecting via mouse the region and then select "Interpolate" from the context-menu.

Q)	how do I stop a synth playing in a track/ how do i create a NoteOff?

A)	put the cursor in a channel's first column, the row you want it to stop and press [ctrl]-1.
	This will put an "off", silencing the machine at that point. 


- Developement -
----------------

Q)	How can I develop a Psycle Machine?
A)	There is no SDK yet, and format will change in Psycle 2.
	The recommended way right now is to get the source directly of one of 
	the open source plugins ( arguru synth is a good start ), and use it as a template
	for your own.
	You can download them from Psycle's SVN repository at Source Forge Site:
	https://psycle.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/psycle/trunk/psycle-plugins/

Q)	How can I port a Buzz machine to Psycle?
A)	An old SDK exists in the download section of Psycle in Sourceforge, but it is
	obsolete. The only way there is right now is starting with a Psycle plugin.
	M3 Would be your start point, since it is partially documented.

Q)	I would like to contribute to the project. What can I do?
A)	Psycle evolves continuously, and sometimes it is thanks to small contributions from
	people not involved directly with it.
	You can contact the developers (See first Question of this FAQ) and ask what could
	you do. Or either tell us what you'd like to do, DSP, plugins, help files, graphics,
	tracker features... There are lots of places that can be improved in one way or another.
	

Q)	When will Psycle 2 be out?/ In which stage is Psycle 2 developement? What do you
	plan for Psycle 2?
A)	See the History and roadmap.txt file


