
List of Frequently Asked Questions about Psycle
-----------------------------------------------

- Usability -
-------------

Q)	I have run Psycle and I get no sound coming from it. What happens?
A)	Most probably you haven't configured anything. Psycle doesn't select a soundcard
	by default. go to view-settings, "Input/output", and select one.

Q) 	When Psycle loses focus, the music stops. Why?
A) 	The "Exclusive" mode is selected in the Directsound Configuration.
	Go to view-settings, "Input/output" and press the configure button.

Q)	I've put my xxx VST plugin in the "plugins" dir and Psycle doesn't show it. Why?
A)	Psycle uses a different paths for Native plugins and VST plugins. By default,
	Native Plugins go under "Plugins\" and VST's go under "Vst\". If you want to change
	it, go to View-Settings and select your VST plugins' dir.

Q)	Why doesn't/Can't/won't Psycle support buzz machines?
A)	Oskari Tammelin, Buzz author, declined us the right to develop a Buzz Plugins' Host
	for Psycle. It's up to someone to develop a plugin that can load buzz plugins.
	(It won't be allowed by Oskari either, but many users would like it)

Q)	I Have Pro52 VSTi and it is shown as an Effect Machine. How come?
A)	There are two Pro5 dll's, one called pro-52.dll and the other called pro-52fx.dll
	The first one is recognized by Psycle as a generator while the other is recognized
	as an effect and it allows to use the Pro52 Effect engine separatedly from the synth

Q)	I can't enter notes into the Pattern Editor. What happens?
A)	By default the Edit Mode is Deactivated. You have to press the Space Bar once to
	activate it.


(There are some more, but I forgot about them)


- Developement -
----------------

Q)	How can I develop a Psycle Machine?
A)	There's no SDK yet, and format will change in Psycle 2, but right now,you can download
	Psycle plugins' sourcecode and using one of them as a template for your plugin.
	You can download them from Psycle's Source Forge Site at: 
	http:www.sourceforge.net/projects/psycle

Q)	How can I port a Buzz machine to Psycle?
A)	I've just developed a little SDK to do this. Find it on SourceForge Site as well:
	http:www.sourceforge.net/projects/psycle
	Note: Not tested.

Q)	When will Psycle 2 be out?/ In which stage is Psycle 2 developement? What do you
	plan for Psycle 2?
A)	"History" :

	Psycle 2 has been in a few stages since it was first talked about. On December 2000
	it was started to being developed by Mats (the one that made the 1.1 versions ).
	When he left Psycle coding. Psycle 2 stopped, and Psycle 1.5 was done.
	Then, it was clear that Psycle needed a change to be improved further more so it was time
	to think with Psycle 2 again, but instead of continuing Mats's work, [JAZ] started to
	think on a newer design.

	"Nowadays":
	
	Psycle 2 is being coded by our newest coder, Majick_ / MJK .
	He has already coded the Core routing functions ( Sound/MIDI ), the Data Structures
	for patterns and other data, and the Data saving/loading. (No GUI coded yet, but
	there are some designs done)
	We are going to use some GPL sources of other projects to speed up the process and
	take benefit of the GPL itself. ( From there, you can deduce that Psycle 2 will be
	probably GPL)

	About that version named 1.9, it is completely stopped, because Dan was on the head
	of it, but he is very busy since a few months.
	Psycle 1.9 had some Data structure changes which aimed to give more tracks, volume
	column (panning too?) , more lines per pattern, new song fileformat, and so on.
