
List of Frequently Asked Questions about Psycle
-----------------------------------------------

- Usability -
-------------

Q)	I have run Psycle and I get no sound coming from it. What happens?
A)	Most probably you haven't configured anything. Psycle doesn't select a soundcard
	by default. Go to Configuration Menu, settings option and there the "Input/output"
	folder,  and select one.

Q) 	When Psycle loses focus, the music stops. Why?
A) 	The "Exclusive" mode is selected in the Directsound Configuration.
	Go to Configuration Menu, settings option and there the "Input/output" folder, to
	press the configure button.There you will see the option.

Q)	I've put my xxx VST plugin in the "plugins" dir and Psycle doesn't show it. Why?
A)	Psycle uses a different paths for Native plugins and VST plugins. By default,
	Native Plugins go under "Plugins\" and VST's go under "Vst\". If you want to change
	it, go to View-Settings and select your VST plugins' dir.

Q)	Why doesn't/Can't/won't Psycle support buzz machines?
A)	Oskari Tammelin, Buzz author, declined us the right to develop a Buzz Plugins' Host
	for Psycle. It's up to someone to develop a plugin that can load buzz plugins.
	(It won't be allowed by Oskari either, but many users would like it)

Q)	I Have Pro52 VSTi and it is shown as an Effect Machine. How come?
A)	There are two Pro5 dll's, one called pro-52.dll and the other called pro-52fx.dll
	The first one is recognized by Psycle as a generator while the other is recognized
	as an effect and it allows to use the Pro52 Effect engine separatedly from the synth

Q)	I can't enter notes into the Pattern Editor. What happens?
A)	By default the Edit Mode is Deactivated. You have to press the Space Bar once to
	activate it.


(There are some more, but I forgot about them)


- Developement -
----------------

Q)	How can I develop a Psycle Machine?
A)	There's no SDK yet, and format will change in Psycle 2, but right now,you can download
	Psycle plugins' sourcecode and using one of them as a template for your plugin.
	You can download them from Psycle's Source Forge Site at: 
	http:www.sourceforge.net/projects/psycle

Q)	How can I port a Buzz machine to Psycle?
A)	I've just developed a little SDK to do this. Find it on SourceForge Site as well:
	http:www.sourceforge.net/projects/psycle
	Note: Not tested.
	Note2: You can check the sources of the M3 Psycle machine, which is a port of the
	original M3 buzz machine.

Q)	When will Psycle 2 be out?/ In which stage is Psycle 2 developement? What do you
	plan for Psycle 2?
A)	"History" :

	Psycle 2 has been in a few stages since it was first talked about. On December 2000
	it was started to being developed by Mats (the one that made the 1.1 versions ).
	When he left Psycle coding. Psycle 2 stopped, and Psycle 1.5 was done.
	Then, it was clear that Psycle needed a change to be improved further more so it was time
	to think with Psycle 2 again, but instead of continuing Mats's work, [JAZ] started to
	think on a newer design.
	This design has been codenamed PsyClean, but has never really started to being
	developed.

	Then, There was a version that temporarily was called 1.9. This was started by Dan,
	but left it because of work.
	This version had some Data structure changes which aimed to give more tracks, volume
	column (panning too?) , more lines per pattern, new song fileformat, and so on.


	"Nowadays":

	There are two branches, Psycle 1 and PsycleII.

	Psycle 1 is actively being developed, mostly by [JAZ] and pooplog. (If you read this,
	you're seeing the work already). This branch tries to offer fast and simple editing ,
	still being powerful. We still need to add multipattern editing for this to be true.

	Psycle II is a tryout for a real studio, meaning that it would contain different
	editors for different actions, all them related to making and processing audio (and
	maybe other signals as well).
	It was initially stated being coded by Majick_ / MJK, he had most of the core
	ready, but left for work too. Dilvie, on the other hand, started working on the GUI,
	trying Mozilla XUL language as a start. Unfortunately, he's busy with work too
	(yep... another more). He hopes to have more free time over february 2003 to continue
	on that. Let's hope so.
	
