List of Frequently Asked Questions about Psycle
-----------------------------------------------

- General Questions -
-------------------
Q)	I need to speak with the developers!

A)	The best way is using IRC - You need to install an IRC client. HydraIRC is a good choice
	(and there are many others out there as well!). Then you can connect to any server of the
	EFnet network and join the #psycle channel.
	An alternative way to connect is through your browser to http://psycle.sourceforge.net/irc.html

Q)	Is it possible to import/load S3M/XM/IT files into Psycle?

A)	Latest 1.7.x alphas and all 1.8 versions include "Sampulse" and its importing routines.
	Those should allow to import them with ease.
	Note that the code of Sampulse loading and saving is *unfinished*, so you
	should not save songs with Sampulse machine.

Q)	What is this 'dummy' machine?

A)	Dummy internal machine? It is mainly used to replace missing plugin machines when loading
	a .psy file. It can also be used to group machines, connecting them to it.

Q)	I have problems playing a song in Winamp that uses Sublime synth!

A)	The problem with sublime is that you need to copy the file blwtbl.dll file (which you can find
	where psycle.exe is), to either the windows\system32 directory, or to winamp.exe directory.
	This file is needed in order to make sublime works (not only using Winamp). That file is basically
	some extra data that sublime uses to create sounds, and if it doesn't find it, it can't load.
	

- Samples and the Sampler Machine -
--------------------------------
Q)	I've loaded a sample but it doesn't make any sound.

A)	To play a sample (.wav or .iff) you need to add a sampler machine and connect it to the master
	or to an effect that goes to the master. Be sure your audio settings are 0K, too.

Q)	Can Psycle use OGG?/MP3? files as samples?

A)	Unfortunately not. This is a common question, because it would be good. Support for lossy
	compression (MP3?, etc) and lossless compression? (FLAC, etc) formats is on the TODO list.

Q)	When I load a sample and enter a note, it's really fast and high-pitched...
	...when it plays. I've tried everything from halving the bit rate of the sample to re-installing Psycle.
	What should I do about this?

A)	The way trackers change pitch of a sample is by speeding up or slowing down the rate at which
	the individual sample points are played back. the result is similar to playing a 33 1/3 RPM record
	at 45, or vice versa. The pitch changes to the desired tone, but eventually your sample will either
	end up sounding like either the Chipmunks, or Barry White on valium.
	That's what multisampled instruments solve, but unfortunately Psycle doesn't support multisampled
	instruments as yet. You can use another sampler VSTi that support multisample formats like SF2
	(RGCAudio sfz, Fontaminator, Kontakt, VSampler, ...)


- Psycle Usage -
--------------
Q)	When Psycle loses focus, the music stops. Why?

A)	The "Exclusive" mode is selected in the Directsound Configuration. Go to the Configuration
	Menu -> Settings and select the Input/output tab, and press the configure button.
	There you will see the Exclusive option. Uncheck it.

Q)	I've put my xxx VST plugin in the "plugins" dir and Psycle doesn't show it!

A)	Psycle uses a different paths for Native plugins and VST plugins. By default, Native Plugins go
	under "Plugins\" and VST's go under "Vst\". If you want to change it, go to Configure-Settings,
	select the "Directories" tab, and select your VST plugins' dir.

Q)	Why doesn't/Can't/won't Psycle support buzz machines?

A)	Oskari Tammelin, the author of Buzz, declined us the right to develop a Buzz Plugins' Host for Psycle.
	It's up to someone to develop a plugin that can load buzz plugins.
	(It won't be allowed by Oskari either, but many users would like it.)

Q)	I Have Pro52 VSTi and it is shown as an Effect Machine. How come?

A)	There are two Pro5 dll's, one called pro-52.dll and the other called pro-52fx.dll. The first one is
	recognized by Psycle as a generator while the other is recognized as an effect and it allows to use
	the Pro52 Effect engine separatedly from the synth (The same happen with other synths).

Q)	I can't enter notes into the Pattern Editor. What happens?

A)	The Edit Mode is Deactivated. The default key to switch it on/off is the "Space" key. You can see if
	you are on Edit mode in the status bar, to the right.

Q)	What is the Red Circle Button in the toolbar for?

A)	It allows you to enter Record Notes in realtime mode. To enter this mode Follow Song and Edit mode
	have to be activated so when you enable Record Notes in realtime, Follow Song and Edit mode are
	activated automatically if they were disabled.

Q)	I have only 16 tracks in my psycle song, how do i get 64?

A)	Under the save icon (the diskette), there is a track number selector. Unfold the list of tracks number
	and select 64.

Q)	What does the Autostop All Machines button exactly do?

A)	When enabled, if Psycle detects an effect that receives no sound input, it stops it, freeing CPU usage.
	This is beneficial in most cases, but plugins like delays, or those that have LFO's or any other parameter
	that needs to run constantly, will sound unexpectedly.

Q)	How do I change the pattern length?

A)	Right Click in the Pattern Window and then select "Properties"

Q)	Is it possible to have different patterns with a different length?

A)	See above: "How do I change the pattern length?"

Q)	How does the tweak_smooth command work?

A)	In the docs-Directory you find a .txt-file with in-depth info about tweaking.

Q)	Is it possible to let a tws command affect several rows (not only one)?

A)	Smooth tweaks between two tweak values can be achieved by entering the start and the end value,
	selecting via mouse the region and then select "Interpolate" from the context-menu.

Q)	how do I stop a synth playing in a track/ how do i create a NoteOff?

A)	put the cursor in a channel's first column, the row you want it to stop and press [ctrl]-1.
	This will put an "off", silencing the machine at that point. 


- Developement -
----------------

Q)	How can I develop a Psycle Machine?
A)	There is no SDK yet, and format will change in Psycle 2.
	The recommended way right now is to get the source directly of one of 
	the open source plugins ( arguru synth is a good start ), and use it as a template
	for your own.
	You can download them from Psycle's SVN repository at Source Forge Site:
	https://psycle.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/psycle/trunk/xpsycle.plugins/

Q)	How can I port a Buzz machine to Psycle?
A)	An old SDK exists in the download section of Psycle in Sourceforge, but it is
	obsolete. The only way there is right now is starting with a Psycle plugin.

Q)	When will Psycle 2 be out?/ In which stage is Psycle 2 developement? What do you
	plan for Psycle 2?
A)	See the roadmap.txt file


